Background
Python programming language is one of dynamic and object-oriented programming languages used for the development of diverse kinds of software developed by the Python Software foundation. Its significant advantage is that facilitates integration with other programing languages and software development tools. In addition, it has in-built standard libraries that are extensive. This means that it facilitates the development of a better source code.
The programming paradigm of Python language embarks on the readability of the source code enhanced through clear syntax. Apart from object-oriented programming paradigm, Python can implement other programming methodologies such as functional programing and imperative programming.
Another important feature of Python language that makes it suitable as a software development tool is that it has a dynamic type system and its memory management strategy is automatic. In addition, it can support the implementation of scripting applications. It is important to note that the development model of Python language is community based, implying that its reference implementation is free and bases on the open source platform. There are various interpreters for the language for various systems software, although programs developed by Python are executable in any environment irrespective of operating system environment.
Brief history of Python programming language
The development of Python language began during the late 80s, with its implementation done on the December of 1989. Python was a successor of the ABC programming language, which had the capabilities of exception handling and implementing an interface with the Amoeba System Software. The release of Python 2.0 during 2000 saw the inclusion of newer features such as offering support for Unicode and garbage collection.
The significant change was its transformation making its development process community based. The release of Python 3.0 took place during 2008. Python language boasts of winning two awards by the TIOBE as the programming of language of the year during 2007 and 2010, resulting to an increase in the popularity of the language.
Implementation of web services in Python
A web service is defines as a program that can transform any client application to a web-based application. The development of web services significantly depends on the scripting abilities of a programming language. An important aspect of Python language is that it can be used in scripting, implying that it is an effective development tool for web services. Web services developed by Python function using the standard messaging formats and they can be interfaced with other software development tools using the conventional Application Programming Interface.
Web programming using Python entails two major paradigms: server programming and client programming . Server programming entails the development of web services that run on the web server, while client programming entails the development of web services that that run on the client side. There are diverse approaches to server programming, examples include the WebFrameworks used for development of server side services using Python; CgiScripts used to write scripting applications in Python; Webservers, which are server solutions developed using Python.
Web services developed in Python are primarily used to offer access and functionality of the APIs via the web. On the client side, Python language can be used in a number of ways including Web Browser Programming, Web Client Programming and Web services. There are various libraries in Python for the development of web services; examples include the Simple Object Access Protocol and the Web Services Description Language.
Python language has extensive in-built tools that can provide support to Internet protocols, coupled with its code readability characteristic, Python is therefore one of the most appropriate programming languages that can be used in the development of dynamic web content using the concept of dynamic programming. Some of the in-built facilities included in Python that can facilitate dynamic programming and development of web services include
